RULEBOOK PAGE 6 — prose text layer
introduction
Nemesis: Retaliation is a semi-cooperative board game designed for 1-5 players, which focuses on emergent narrative and the tension of
the action-horror genre. Each player assumes the role of a marine squad member equipped with professional gear. They are sent to a Facility infested with deadly alien life forms and tasked with a mission – yet their own goals may conflict with one another. In the end, there is one
thing they must do above all: survive.

simple gameplay overview
Attention, Marines!
This introductory story is designed to familiarize you with a standard
Nemesis game’s flow and give you a thematic overview of the essential Nemesis rules. All the terms, items, characters, and locations
appearing during the game are bolded to make them more distinguishable. We hope the story will make learning the rules easier and
more enjoyable. And after a few playthroughs, you will surely have
your own stories to tell!
I can’t help but think this mission has the most accurate briefing the Marine Corps has ever given, because we’ve got no intel whatsoever. No external scans of the Facility, no blueprints
of the Room layout, just some rough ideas about which Sections
they should be in… And here we are, spilling out of the vessel into
the darkness of the Landing Zone, with our shiniest Equipment
ready, minds vigilant, and a clear Mission Task: to eliminate
the Queen of whatever intruder pest has taken over this place. Of
course, lucrative offers from external parties always find their way
to reach strike squads like ours, so there could be some, let’s say,
Private Objectives involved. Gotta stay alert on all fronts.
I Move into the unknown – but as a Recon, this is right up my alley.
It would be wise to find and secure the Hibernatorium first, as it
could be our only means of survival in the end. As I lead the party
successfully forward, I enter another Room with a bit too much
confidence and too little focus: Fire rages inside, flames bursting
right into my face. Before I manage to back out into the corridor,
my comms activate. ‘On your six, Zero!’
And there they are: four Adult Intruders, looking like hell itself has spat them out, standing in the corridor between me and
the rest of the squad. It happens quickly: I toggle my Assault Rifle
and Fire a Burst, feeding half of my Ammo into their ugly faces,
killing at least one, then throw myself through the blaze to get to
the opposite corridor. The team will have to deal with the rest,
and I proceed with reconnaissance alone in the dark… or so I
hope. Can’t really complain about that, either – working solo has
its advantages.
I enter Section B and find a corridor leading to the Hibernatorium, but the Facility’s systems are not kind today – Closed Doors
bar the way forward. Meanwhile, another Intruder appears, lured
by the Noise. I toggle my rifle again – wasting bullets on a blind
burst would be too risky with that fast-moving bastard. After a
good deal of Shooting, it finally falls, but not before it manages to
Scratch my arm with its nasty claws.
Ammo isn’t the only thing I’m low on. Gotta find some Oxygen fast.
While Searching the Room, I discover a reasonably intact Fire Extinguisher instead. It wouldn’t help much with suffocating, but
it is a nice toy to have at hand, too. Finally, suffocating, I enter
the Hibernatorium and get straight to the serving Robot. Those
units usually carry some Oxygen tanks on them… and fresh air
works better than combat drugs.
The Officer reports on their progress: they proceeded methodically, Securing Rooms and Reinforcing Corridors. Wise and
slow. Not my style, but they manage to reach the Life Support
Control Room. As they Repair a Malfunction there, a blessed
hush of cleansed air flows through Section B, my Room included.
Before I could express my gratitude, the sounds of heavy fire reach
me through the comms. I instantly recognize it’s something very,
very ugly, and I’m not wrong. The Queen has arrived. That means
she is not guarding the Nest…

6

I must proceed, accompanied by the screams of my team in
the comms. Our Combat Engineer somehow manages to wound
the Queen, but losing Health only enrages her. A few seconds
later, I hear a petrifying scream. ‘Evac, now!’ Officer Commands
the team. Shit… But I can still pull this off. I have a plan.
I enter the Nest and grab what I’ve come for: the Egg. Backing into
the corridor, I neutralize a lone Larva and locate my way back to
the Cooling System Room to initiate the Autodestruction Procedure. It’s the only option left. Destroying the Facility means killing
the Queen and eradicating the Nest, right? And everything inside, us
included. I contact my squad, or whatever is left of it, to direct them
to the rendezvous point in Section C. Then, I run like hell.
As usual, I arrive first. The Escape Shuttle, our last resort, sits
patiently in the dock. I try not to pay much attention to the excruciating pain stinging all over my body. Little I can do about either Light or more Serious Wounds now, as the Surgery Room
is on the other side of the Facility. I don’t even care about Using
a Medpack.
Bandaid, the squad’s Medical Support, shows up a while after
me – but she wants to double back. Damned angel of mercy.
She grabs some supplies, then tells me to hold the perimeter.
Well, I don’t share her heroism kink. ‘What the hell, Zero?’ she
shouts through the comms as I prep to launch the shuttle to finally
Escape the Facility. ‘Get your ass back here! You won’t survive
the journey; you’re infected!’. But I don’t catch the bite. Cheap
bluffing... My objective is completed.
***
Damned medic, how did she know? I can feel it now. It’s moving inside me, and it grows fast. I don’t have much time, do I?
Alright… I never managed to make my old man proud, but I can
sure still make him rich. Yeah, that should make the old bastard
feel even worse, having to live off my creds for the rest of his
life… Hear that, corpos? Make the transfer, and then some. I’ve
got you twice the samples we agreed on. And I really hope you
have some decent procedures set for opening cans of worms like
the one I’m in – like the one I am. Because if you don’t… Well, then
fixing the shuttle’s destination coordinates straight back to Earth –
‘for corporate safety’ – may turn out to be quite a good joke.

