RULEBOOK PAGE 10 — prose text layer
player setup
objective setup
and character draft
To setup the players, perform the following:
1.

Find Help cards with numbers corresponding to the number
of players taking part in the game (e.g. if there are 3 players in
the game, find cards “1”, “2”, and “3”). Shuffle them and deal
one Help card to each player. Each player reveals their card.
Note: The number shown on the Help card is used in the following Character Draft, as well as for determining some Objectives during the game.

2.

Take all Objective cards and divide them into 2 decks – Private and Mission. Also, take the Mission Task deck. From
each deck remove all cards with a Number of Characters
symbol higher than the number of Characters taking part in
the game. Then, shuffle each deck separately and:
a. Deal 1 random Private Objective card and 1 random Mission Objective card to each player face down. Put the rest
of those cards back in the box unseen.
Do not show Objective cards to other players at any point
during the game. They can only be revealed at the End
of the Game. Objective cards may still be discussed and
lied about.
b. Draw 1 random Mission Task card and place it face up
on the Mission Task slot on the bottom Round track tile.
Put the rest back in the box.

3.

Shuffle all Character draft cards. Deal 2 of those cards
to Player 1 – they should remain secret for other players. That player chooses one of those cards (a Character to
play as) and reveals it. The other card is shuffled back into
the deck unseen. Repeat this sequence for each other player
in ascending player number order.

character setup
Each player performs the following:
1.

Take 1 Character board and place it in front of you. Then,
place the Character tile matching your chosen Character in
the Character board.
2. Take 1 Universal marker and place it in the left-most slot of
the Health track on the bottom of the Character board.
3. Set your Oxygen counter to the max value: 7.
4. Take your chosen Character’s miniature, place it in the colored ring matching your Character’s color, and place the miniature in the Landing Zone.
5. Take the Backpack card holder with your player number
and place it above your Character board.
6. Take all Action cards for your Character, shuffle them
and place them to the left of your Character board, face
down – leave some space to the right of your Character board
for an Action cards discard pile.
Note: The Contractor has 5 cards marked as Contractor and 5 cards
marked as Contractor: Consultant. This distinction is needed only in
Expansions and should be ignored for now.
7.

Take your Character Item card – If it’s a Heavy Item, place it
on one of the Hands slots of your Character board. If it’s Armor, place it in the Heavily Injured section of the Health track.
Then, if the Item has Ammo slots, place 1 Ammo token
(
) from the insert full-side up on each such slot.

Note: The Contractor starts with 2 Character Items.
8.

10

Finally, take all Character Draft cards and put them back into
the box.

support Equipment draft
These steps only apply to Characters other than the Contractor. Since
the Contractor already starts with 2 Items, they do not take part in
the Support Equipment draft.
Perform the following:
1.
2.

3.
4.

5.

6.

Take the Support Equipment deck, shuffle it, draw 7 cards
from it and reveal them to all players.
The player with the highest player number chooses 1 of those
cards and places it in the appropriate place in their player
area – Heavy Item in an empty Hand slot, Armor on the Heavily Injured part of the Health track.
Each other player, in descending player number order, chooses 1
Support Equipment, until all players have 1 Support Equipment.
If any of the chosen Equipment have empty Tactical Gear
slots, fill them with appropriate Tactical Gear tokens from
the insert.
Tactical Gear tokens can be placed only in Tactical Gear slots
of the corresponding colors.
In Gray slots any Tactical Gear token can be placed.
More about Tactical Gear tokens: see page 16.
Remove the unchosen Support Equipment from the game and
leave the Support Equipment deck close to the Item decks.
They may be used during the game.
As the last step, each player chooses 4 Tactical Gear tokens
of their choice in any combination from the insert, and places
them in their Tactical Belt on the left side of the Character
board. Ammo tokens are placed full-side up. This choice can
be done simultaneously, but if necessary perform it in descending player number order.
Note: For the first game we recommend starting with 1 token of each type.

beginning of the game
1.
2.
3.

Each player draws 5 Action cards to their hand from their
Action deck.
Player 1 receives the Starting Player token.
The game begins with the Starting Player!

