RULEBOOK PAGE 18 — prose text layer
Character's health and wounds

Bite

A Character’s Health track is divided into 3 states:
• Healthy
• Injured
• Heavily Injured

serious wounds

A Character ( ) is considered in a given state when their Health
marker (Universal marker in a Health track) is on one of the slots of
that section. These sections do not affect the game on their own, but
Intruder Attacks frequently interact with the current state of the Attacked Character, sometimes even killing them outright.
INTRUDER ATTACK EXAMPLE
ADULT
DRONE
QUEEN

If you are Heavily Injured,
you die.
Otherwise, gain
1 Serious Wound
and 1 Contamination.

Characters may lose or restore Health points ( ) during the game.
In such cases, simply move your Health marker to the right or left
accordingly.
When a Health marker would move to a section with an Armor Item,
discard the Armor and continue moving the Health marker. Armor
does not prevent any Health lost unless specified by the Item itself.
More on Armors: see page 29.
When a Health marker is moved from the last slot onto the Skull icon,
the Character dies.

death
When a Character dies, remove their miniature from the board. All of
their Items they were carrying are lost as a result. This Character lost
the game and no longer take part in it.

SERIOUS
WOUND

EYES
+1 to all your Shoot results.

Characters can sometimes gain Serious Wounds (mostly as a result of
Intruder Attacks). Serious Wounds are cards introducing major negative
effects to the Character, as well as reducing current and max Health
points (Health marker may never move to a slot covered by a Serious
Wound). They can only be healed using certain Items and Rooms.
Whenever a Character gains a Serious Wound, a random card is drawn
from the Serious Wound deck and placed in the leftmost Health Section
without a Serious Wound. It is entirely possible to have 2 exactly the
same Serious Wounds – do not stack their effects then.
If the Health marker is in a section where a Serious Wound card is being placed, move the Health marker to the first empty slot in the next
Section. This may result in discarding an Armor Item.

discarding serious wounds
There are multiple ways to discard Serious Wounds – most commonly found on Items and Rooms.
Whenever a Character resolves an effect that discards a Serious Wound and they have more than one, they may choose which
one to discard. In such a case slide the remaining Serious Wounds
to the leftmost Health sections.
Discarding a Serious Wound does not move the Health marker in any way.
RESTORING HEALTH
When restoring Health points, a player may always choose to
restore fewer Health points than described.

18

