RULEBOOK PAGE 14 — prose text layer
intruder phase
In the Intruder phase, Intruders (

) will burn and attack.

The Intruder Phase is divided into 2 shorter steps that are resolved in
order. After the last step is resolved an Event Phase begins.

event phase

In this Phase, an Event card is drawn that can drastically alter the situation in the game, and then contents of the Intruder bag will be modified.

1. intruders burning
Each Intruder in a Room with Fire (

rise of the machine

) is dealt 1 Hit.

If Fire is in the Nest, 1 Egg is destroyed.
More on Fire: see page 23.
More on Intruders’ Health: see page 33.
Note: Since no die is rolled, this Hit can never kill an Intruder (except
for a Larva).
All

in each

move.

2. intruder attacks

Then, all

Each Intruder in each Room Attacks a Character (if there is any). If
there is more than 1 Character in a Room, it Attacks the Character
first in Turn order.

.
on the
Place a
in a Room with the
Place a
2
loses
Room
that
in
Each

.
.

in each Unexplored
Place a
.
Corridor without a

Each Attack is resolved separately starting with the Room on the topleft of the Facility and going row by row.
If there is more than one Intruder in a Room, start with the largest
Intruders first – they all Attack the same Character first in Turn order, unless that Character dies or leaves the Room. If that happens
the Intruders who have not Attacked yet, do so against the next Character in Turn order.
More on Intruder Attacks: see page 32.

in every Room move.

A
b
c

The Event card is divided into the following parts:
A. Intruder Movement – These icons describe which
Intruders move during an Event Phase.
B. Event Main Effect – Major effect severely impacting the game.
C. Event Secondary Effect – Lesser effect, mostly revolving around adding Noise markers to Corridors.

3. event card resolution
During this step some Intruders move and effects from the Event
card are resolved.
Draw a card from the Event deck and resolve it in the following way. If
the card describes an effect that is impossible to resolve, ignore that
sentence and continue resolving the rest of the card..
For example: If an effect instructs you to place a Malfunction marker ( ) in
a Room, and that Room already has a Malfunction marker, ignore that effect.
1.

Intruder Movement – Intruders described by the card move
toward the closest Characters ( ).
–

– Intruders in Corridors of the shown orientation move.

Note: Intruders move in different ways depending if they enter a Corridor, a Room with a Character or an empty Room.
More on Intruder Movement: see page 30.
2.
3.

Resolve the Event Main Effect.
Resolve the Event Secondary Effect.

ORDER OF EFFECTS
All effects mentioning Characters should be done in Turn order.
All effects mentioning Noise markers ( ) in Corridors are resolved starting with the Corridor on the top-left of the Facility
and going row by row.
4.

14

Discard the card.

