RULEBOOK PAGE 23 — prose text layer
INTRODUCTION
Page 6

map markers and tokens
1. ON ROOMS
Each Room may only contain 1 Malfunction marker. If a Malfunction marker is to be placed in a Room with one already, simply ignore it – this includes the Malfunction Markers Limit rule described
in the box below.
If a Room has a Malfunction marker its Room Action is unavailable,
and cannot be performed in any way. It does not affect Item icons
in this Room.
2. ON HEAVY ITEMS
When a Malfunction marker is placed on a Heavy Item, it cannot be
used in any way (its Action cannot be used, and that Item cannot be
used to Shoot nor Burst) and is treated as if that Item had no effect’s
text and no icons. Tactical Gear tokens on Items can still be used.
When a Malfunction marker is to be placed on an Item with one already
there, the Item is destroyed and must be discarded instead.

In Nemesis various markers and tokens may be placed in the Facility
portraying various states of Rooms and Corridors.
Noise markers ( ) may be placed in Corridors and are explained
more in the Character Movement part of the Rulebook.
Fire markers and Secure tokens are placed in Rooms and only affect the Rooms they are in. Malfunction Markers may be placed on
a variety of components.

fire markers
Fires are a common occurence in destroyed Facilities. They are equally
dangerous for humans and Intruders alike. Yet, the biggest danger is
the possibility of Fires spreading and enveloping the whole base.
Fire markers are placed in Rooms. Each Room may contain only 1
Fire marker. If a Fire marker is to be placed in a Room with one already, simply ignore it.
OVERWHELMING FIRE
If at any point you must place a Fire marker and there are no
more Fire markers available, the Facility is destroyed and the
game ends.
More about Destroyed Facility: see page 39.
Fire markers affect the game in three ways:
1.
2.

3.

When a Character ends their Turn in a Room with a Fire
marker, they lose 1 Health point ( ).
During the Intruder Phase each Intruder in a Room with a Fire
marker is dealt 1 Hit. If Fire is in the Nest, 1 Egg is discarded
from there.
Fire markers may spread as a result of some Events. Spreading Fire means placing Fire markers in neighboring Rooms
according to the instructions on a given card.
Closed Doors prevent Fire from spreading this way.

malfunction markers
Malfunction markers represent something being broken and impossible to use. They may be placed on many different components such
as Rooms, Heavy Items, and Robot cards. When discarded they go
back to the pool.

3. ON A ROBOT
When placed on a Robot card, the Robot ( ) cannot be used in any
way (neither Rooms interacting with the Robot, nor Robot Actions).
Treat the Robot card as having no text and no icons. Tactical Gear tokens on the Robot are still available. Effects that only require a Robot
can still be used however (for example a Secure Action card).
If a Malfunction marker is to be placed on a Robot when there is one
there already, simply ignore it.
DISCARDING MALFUNCTION MARKERS
Many effects allow you to discard Malfunction markers – you
can do so from the Room your Character is in, or any Item/Robot in
that Room (unless the effect states otherwise).
MALFUNCTION MARKERS LIMIT
If at any point you must place a Malfunction marker and there
are no more markers available, place a Fire marker in the Room
instead, if possible.
Example: You must place a Malfunction marker on your Weapon
and there are no more markers available. You instead place
a Fire marker in your Room.

secure tokens
Securing Rooms is one of the Actions that allow Characters to prepare for Intruder Attacks. Secure tokens protect Characters from Attacks directed by Intruders entering the Room.
Many Actions may place Secure tokens in Rooms. There is a limit of
3 Secure tokens in any given Room.

ENDGAME
OVERVIEW
Page 7

SETUP
Pages 8-11

GAME ROUND
STRUCTURE
Pages 12-15

CHARACTER
Pages 16-18

MAP
Pages 19-23

CHARACTER
MOVEMENT
Pages 24-27

ITEMS
Pages 28-29

INTRUDERS
Pages 30-32

COMBAT
Pages 33-34

THE QUEEN
Page 35

CONTAMINATION
CARDS
Page 36

ROBOT
Page 37

Characters may never Secure a Room with an Intruder inside.
Note: Some Rooms may be impossible to Secure (such as the Nest
Room) and some Rooms are always Secured (such as the Shelter
Room).

LANDER AND
ANTI-AIRCRAFT
Page 37

RESOLVING SECURE TOKENS:
Whenever an Intruder enters a Room with at least 1 Character
and a Secure token, 1 Secure token is discarded instead of resolving
the Intruder Attack.

PROCEDURES
Page 38

Discarding Secure tokens is a result of Intruder movement and may
never be prevented.
Secure tokens do NOT protect from Intruder Attacks made by Intruders
that are already in a Room (for example, during the Intruder Attack step).

END OF
THE GAME
Page 39
OBJECTIVE AND
MISSION TASK
Page 39

Regardless what they are placed on, that component cannot be used.
You can find specific information on how Malfunction markers interact with components as follows:

ADDITIONAL
MODES
Page 40

23

ICON GLOSSARY
Page 40

