RULEBOOK PAGE 33 — prose text layer
INTRODUCTION
Page 6

intruder health and combat
Characters can fight Intruders in many different ways. They can
use precise, single shots at Intruders in the same Room or Burst at
the hordes charging through Corridors. In the direst of situations Melee Attacks are also an option.
No matter which type of Combat occurs, the effect of such always results in assigning Hits to Intruders. When Adult Intruders are in Corridors each Hit kills a single Adult Intruder (by simply removing them
from the map). When they are in a Room each Hit should be understood as an injury dealt to an Intruder (by placing Universal markers by
the Intruder’s model).

ENDGAME
OVERVIEW
Page 7

ATTACKING OTHER CHARACTERS
To prevent serious conflict among the crew, humanity has
equipped their members with implants that create a strong psychic barrier and inhibit direct violence against homo sapiens.
This is why directly attacking is impossible.
Characters cannot directly Attack other Characters. Yet it is
still possible (accidentally or intentionally) to harm other Characters as a side effect of Actions.
After all, trapping someone in a Room on fire is not an Attack.

Intruders are very agile so Shooting at them in cramped Room is a
difficult task. Shooting in Nemesis produces singular Hits. Each
Hit increases the likelihood of
an Intruder dying, but that is
never certain.
Characters may only Shoot at Intruders in the same Room and
only if they have a working, loaded
Ranged Weapon.

More on Weapons: see page 28.
Shooting does not, however, spend Ammo (except for one specific result of the roll, see further below) – Characters use advanced equipment where a single bullet loss is not significant.

MAP
Pages 19-23

bursting

2.
3.

Choose a Weapon and a target – Choose a Weapon in a Hand
without a Malfunction marker and with at least 1 Ammo token
on it (it doesn’t have to be a full Ammo token). Then, choose
an Intruder in the same Room as the Character.
Deal 1 Hit – place 1 Universal marker next to the Intruder’s
base.
Make a Shoot roll – Roll a Shoot die and resolve the result to
check if the Intruder dies.

An Ammo token can be spent twice before it’s
depleted. If you have a full Ammo token and the
game instructs you to spend it – flip it.
If you have a half-full Ammo token and the game instructs you
to spend it – discard it.

ITEMS
Pages 28-29

INTRUDERS
Pages 30-32

COMBAT
Pages 33-34

Bursts always spend Ammo, but allow you to score multiple Hits possibly killing multiple Intruders at once.
Bursting is resolved in the following way:
1.

2.

3.

4.

Note: Larvae and the Queen are dealt Hits the same way, but their
Health is resolved differently. For details see the next page.
SPEND

When Intruders are cramped in
a narrow Corridor it’s time to Burst
fire. It uses a significant amount of
Ammo, but it’s well worth it.

More on Heavy Items: see page 28.

–

: Critical hit.
The Intruder dies – Place the Intruder back in the Intruder pool.
– 2 3 4 5 : Normal hit that sometimes kills.
If the number rolled is lower or equal to the number of
Hits on the Intruder, the Intruder dies – place it back in
the Intruder pool.
–
: You’ve lost too many bullets.
Spend
.

CHARACTER
MOVEMENT
Pages 24-27

Characters may only Burst at Intruders in an adjacent Corridor
and only if they have a working,
loaded Ranged Weapon.

Shooting is resolved in the following way:
1.

GAME ROUND
STRUCTURE
Pages 12-15

CHARACTER
Pages 16-18

WEAPONS
Nearly all Combat in Nemesis is done using Weapons. When
a Weapon is chosen to be used in an Action, all effects and modifiers from the chosen Weapon must be applied, unless stated otherwise. Effects of rolling a specific result are described on Weapon
cards and are done in addition to the standard result provided below.

shooting

SETUP
Pages 8-11

5.

Choose a Weapon and a Corridor – Choose a Weapon in
a Hand without a Malfunction marker and with at least 1 Ammo
token on it (it doesn’t have to be a full Ammo token). Then,
choose an adjacent Corridor to Burst at.
Spend
and make a Burst roll – The number on the die
shows how many Hits will be applied to Intruders in the chosen Corridor.
Apply Hits – Apply Hits to Intruders in the Corridor in any way
you decide. The number rolled on the Burst die shows how
many Hits you apply – 1 , 2 , 3 or 4 .
– You may only apply 1 Hit per Adult and 1 Hit per Larva.
– You may only apply exactly 2 Hits per Drone.
– You may apply any number of Hits to the Queen, up to
her Hits track maximum.
– Any leftover Hits are lost.

THE QUEEN
Page 35

CONTAMINATION
CARDS
Page 36

ROBOT
Page 37

LANDER AND
ANTI-AIRCRAFT
Page 37

Resolve Hits – Hits are resolved differently depending on the
Intruder:

PROCEDURES
Page 38

– Adults and Larvae with 1 Hit and Drones with 2 Hits die.
Place them back in the Intruder pool.
– For each Hit applied to the Queen advance the Universal marker on the Queen’s Hits track by 1 up to the
space. This may apply additional effects.
More on Queen Health: see page 35.

END OF
THE GAME
Page 39

– If you rolled this symbol, check for any additional effects that may apply from the used Weapon or Action. If you
have no additional effects, this symbol does not do anything.

Note: The
is on the same face of the Burst die as the 4 – rolling this result means applying both 4 Hits and the additional effects.

33

OBJECTIVE AND
MISSION TASK
Page 39
ADDITIONAL
MODES
Page 40

ICON GLOSSARY
Page 40

