RULEBOOK PAGE 30 — prose text layer
intruders

QUEEN

DRONE

ADULT

LARVA

Intruders ( ) are an alien species that humanity knows very little about. They are aggressive and intelligent creatures. Intruders come in
many different types described below. All rules regarding Intruders are explained from the perspective of Adults since they are most commonly
met in Nemesis, but they apply to Intruders of all types, unless strictly described otherwise.

intruder types

Intruders in Nemesis come in the 4 different types seen above. Starting from the largest:
The Queen is only one, an extremely durable and aggressive enemy.
Drones are rare but more dangerous than typical Adults.
Adults are the most standard type seen very frequently. They commonly hunt with other Intruders as a group.
Larvae are not as deadly as the other Intruders, but come with a nasty
surprise.
INTRUDERS LIMIT
Intruders may be placed in both Rooms and Corridors. While
Rooms can hold any number of Intruders, the maximum number of Intruders that may be placed in any Corridor is 6 (with
the Queen counting as 4 Intruders).
More on Corridors: see page 21.
Intruder models are a limited component – if you are ever instructed to place more models of a certain type than available,
place as many as you can and ignore the rest – it cannot get
worse.

intruder bag

During many different Phases you draw tokens from the Intruder
bag – any time this happens, resolve the token according to the specific column of the Intruder Help sheet and remove the token from
the bag. Tokens are always removed upon being resolved, and placed
back in the Intruder token piles. The blank token is the only exception
– it is always put back into the bag.

intruder movement

Intruders move between Corridors and Rooms in many different situations. Below you can find general rules that apply to most movements, followed by a quick summary of all possibilities that may
occur, and then an in-depth description of each situation on the following pages.

general rules:
• Intruders move to the closest Character ( ) using the
shortest route – Intruders move as a group in the direction of closest Character (unless specified otherwise) using
the shortest possible route.
– Doors are completely disregarded when Intruders choose
the shortest route.
• Intruders move between Rooms and Corridors – If the moving Intruders are in a Corridor, they move to an adjacent Room.
If they are in a Room, they move to an adjacent Corridor.
• Only 1 Intruder enters a Room with a Character – Whenever Intruders move from 1 Corridor to a Room with a Character, only the largest Intruder moves to that Room instead.
• Intruders Attack when moving to a Room with a Character – Whenever an Intruder enters a Room with a Character it always Attacks (some effects may allow you to prevent
that Attack, such as Secure tokens).
• Intruders stay in Combat – Intruders do not move when
they are in the same Room as a Character. They do not move
away from Combat, unless Repelled.
INTRUDERS TARGETING
When Intruders have multiple Characters they could Attack/move
to, they choose the target by following this pattern:
> Closest Character
> If there are multiple Characters in the same distance, then
out of them the Character Activating the Attack/movement
(if there is any)
> If there is still a tie, then out of possible Characters, the
one that is first in Turn order.

30

