RULEBOOK PAGE 40 — prose text layer
additional
modes

dice–related icons

Deadly Mode

This mode increases the difficulty of the game and is available both
in the standard and in the Solo/Coop version of the game.
If you wish to play with this mode during the game, use both the standard Noise values and the second, smaller Noise values found on
some Corridors.

1
107

2

Corridors are treated as having both of those Noise values for any effects.
This means that Noise rolls are much more dangerous as the chances of
Intruders appearing and entering Rooms are higly increased.
Note: Secured Corridors still have only one value of 0.
For the sake of any tie-breaks use only the standard Noise value.

solo and coop rules
2

1

While Nemesis shines as a semi-cooperative experience, you can
also play it in fully cooperative mode, or even solo. To facilitate that,
special Solo/Coop Objectives are used.

setup
Apply the following changes to the setup of the game:
1.

2.

Instead of placing a random Mission Task card, draw and
place a number of random Solo/Coop Mision Task cards
equal to the number of Characters taking part in the game.
Do NOT draw standard Objective cards. They are not used
in this mode.

winning
To win, all Mission Tasks must be fulfilled, and at least 1 Character
must Survive.
Note: If there are multiple Objectives requiring you to fulfill the same
requirement (such as gaining a Data token), that many Characters
must do so and Survive.

revive
In this fully cooperative mode, the Surgery Room is equipped with
a special AutoDoc device, allowing the marines to revive any near
death person.
Whenever one of the Characters dies, leave their model on the board
knocked over and discard all their Items. When Moving from a Room
containing the model, another Character may move the model with
them by discarding 1 additional Action card.
If a knocked over Character model starts a Round in a Surgery Room
(and no Intruders and no Malfunction marker are there), they are placed
back up, discard all Serious Wounds, and place their Health marker on
the left-most space of the Injured section of their Health track.

Difficulty
We recommend starting with the standard setup, but it is possible to
change the difficulty of the game for groups that are new or groups
that are more experienced with Nemesis.
To do so, simply increase (or decrease) the number of Mission Tasks
during setup.
Note: There may be a situation in which the Tasks require you to have
more Data tokens than there are starting Characters in the game. In
that case simply gain as many as there are Characters in the game.

40

icon glossary
2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ,
a Shoot die.

,

Shoot die icons – Specific results on

1 , 2, 3, 4,
a Burst die.

Burst die icons – Specific results on

1 , 2 , 3 , 4 ,
a Noise die.

Noise die icons – Specific results on

map–related icons
,

,

Red, Yellow, Green Item – An Item of a specific type.

Computer – Shows whether a specific Room has a computer
system access.
Fire marker
Malfunction marker – Shows whether something is broken.
It may be placed in a Room, but also on a Robot or a Heavy Item.
Noise marker
Secure token
,
,
Corridor icons (the rotation of the icon is important) – Shows Corridors in the Facility in that specific orientation.
Most frequently used to show from which Corridors Intruders move.
,
Active/Inactive Life Support Systems – Related
tokens can be found on each Section border piece. Determines if
there’s oxygen in a related Section.
,
Active/Inactive Hibernatorium – The related token can be found on Section “B” border piece. Determines if Characters may may Use Hibernatorium.
Lander token
Autodestruction token

tactical gear icons
Oxygen Tactical Gear token
Ammo Tactical Gear token
Grenade Tactical Gear token
Medpack Tactical Gear token

tactical gear slots
Tactical Gear slot for an Ammo token
Tactical Gear slot for a Grenade token
Tactical Gear slot for an Oxygen token
Tactical Gear slot for a Medpack token
Tactical Gear slot for any token

general
Character
Oxygen – In the Character supply (represented by numbers on
a Character’s Oxygen counter).
Character Health points
A Action card

Robot
Not In Combat – Actions with this icon cannot be performed in
a Room with Intruders.
Intruder

