game round structure
The game is played in a series of Rounds.
Each Round is divided into 4 separate Phases:
Player Phase, Intruder Phase, Event Phase, and Cleanup Phase.
In the following pages you will find the four Phases described in
detail. Below you can see the whole Round structure with a short
description of each step.
PLAYER PHASE
Beginning with the Starting Player (the player who has the Starting
Player token) and continuing clockwise, players take Turns during
which they resolve the following 3 steps:
1. Perform 2 Actions – Perform 2 Actions of your choice listed
on the Character board.
2. Oxygen Loss – If you are in a Section with Inactive Life Support Systems (
) lose 1 Oxygen ( ).
3. Fire Damage – If you are in a Room with Fire ( ) lose 1 Health
Point ( ).
This process repeats until all players have Passed.
INTRUDER PHASE
1. Intruders Burning – Intruders ( ) in Rooms with Fire receive 1 Hit.
2. Intruder Attacks – Intruders Attack Characters ( ) in
the same Rooms.
EVENT PHASE
3. Event Card Resolution – An Event card is resolved.
4. Bag Development – Intruders’ colony develops.
CLEANUP PHASE
5. Starting Player Change – The next player in clockwise order
becomes the Starting Player.
6. Drawing Action Cards – Each Character refills their hand
by drawing cards.
7. Time Advancement – The Round marker is advanced and
a new Round begins.

player phase

During this Phase players take their Turns in clockwise order, beginning with the Starting Player. If a given player has Passed, they are
skipped in Turn order.
Note: Player numbers on Help cards do not matter in the Turn order. After setup they are used only for the purposes of some Objective cards.
TURN ORDER AS TIEBREAKER
Turn order is the most common way to break ties in Nemesis.
The Rulebook may call out the Character first in Turn order. In
any such case it describes the Starting player (the player that
currently holds the Starting Player token) or is closest to one in
the clockwise Turn order.
When all players have Passed the Player Phase ends and the Intruder
Phase begins.

players' turns
During their Turn a player must resolve the 3 following steps in order:
1.
2.
3.

Perform 2 Actions
Oxygen Loss
Fire Damage

Players may also, once per game, choose an Objective during their
Turn – this does not count as an Action.
More about Choosing an Objective: see the next page.
1. RESOLVING ACTIONS
In a given Turn a player must perform 2 Actions choosing from the list
on the Character board (see below). If they are unable to perform any
other Action they must perform the “Pass” Action. Players may perform the same Action multiple times in any given Turn.
- – Basic Actions List – Costing 0 Action cards:
• Play an Action card
• Pass
Costing 1 Action card:
• Make a Move – See Movement (on page 24)
• Place 1
– See Secure tokens (on page 23)
• Fire a Shot in a Room – See Shooting (on page 32)
• Fire a Burst at a Corridor – See Bursting (on page 32)
• Perform a Melee Attack – See Melee Attack (on page 33)
• Use an Item – See Use Item (on page 28)
• Activate the Robot – See Activating Robot (on page 37)
• Trade – See Trade (on page 29)
• Use any Tactical Gear – See Tactical Belt (on page 16)
Costing 2 Action cards:
• Use the Room – See Rooms (on page 20)
• Make a Move Cautiously – See Movement (on page 24)
NOT IN COMBAT
Some Actions (marked with
) may only be performed, when a Character is not engaged in Combat. A Character is considered to be in Combat when they are in a Room
with at least 1 Intruder.
To perform an Action, the player pays a cost listed above by discarding an appropriate number of Action cards from hand to their discard
pile, face up. Then, they resolve the chosen Action.
COST IN ACTION CARDS
Action cards discarded to pay a cost of Basic Actions or as
a result of any effect are placed on a discard pile without resolving their effects.

Note that in Nemesis Pass is an Action.
A player does not Pass automatically when they have no cards in
hand. The “Pass” Action must still be performed, which may sometimes force a player to wait until their next Turn, if they have already
performed 2 Actions.
2. OXYGEN LOSS
If you are in a Section with an Inactive Life Support System, lose 1 Oxygen.
More on Oxygen: see page 17.
3. FIRE DAMAGE
If you are in a Room with a Fire marker, lose 1 Health Point.
More on Fire: see page 23.

12

