contamination cards
Contamination cards are one of the undesirable consequences of interacting with Intruders ( ). Some effects, such as Intruder Attacks, may result in Characters ( ) receiving Contamination cards.

hidden text
Each Contamination card contains hidden text that remains a secret until
a game effect makes the player scan a Contamination card.
USING SCANNER

Can't be discarded for Actions.
You may discard this card when you Pass.

ContAmination

ICSNBAJD
INFECTED
IBSACSFD
IGHWAEFD
IYSFEWED

When a Contamination card is gained, it is always placed in a Character’s discard pile.
Contamination cards are undesirable by players and affect them in
two ways:
1.

2.

They fill up the Action deck – Although Contamination
cards share the back layout with Action cards, they CANNOT
be discarded to pay for Actions.
They increase the risk of dying – Having many Contamination cards in an Action deck at the End of the Game makes it
more likely for a Character to die.

More on Infection and Eclosion Procedures: see page 38.

In such a case the player can decipher the card using the Scanner.
When Scanning a Contamination card you are looking for the word
“INFECTED”:
• If the card contains this exact word, it means the Contamination card is Infected.
• If the card does not contain that word, the card is Not Infected.
Read the card carefully, most words look very alike.
The exact effect of scanning Contamination cards is dependent on
the situation and should be described by the effect. Most commonly
it is associated with the Infection Procedure.
More on Infection Procedure: see page 38.

infected by larva
Too much Contamination may result in a Character being Infected and,
in effect, may end with a Character’s death at the End of the Game.
The most common effect of being Infected is placing a Larva model
on a Character board, but it is always described by the effect/procedure. Having a Larva on a Character board does not incur any penalties. Having the Larva heavily increases the chance of that Character’s death (mostly during the End of the Game checks).
More on Eclosion Procedure: see page 38.
A Larva can be removed from a Character with a few in-game effects, such as the Surgery Room.

36

