character movement
movement sequence

Characters ( ) may Move as a result of many different effects,
most commonly by performing the “Make a Move” Action. Character
Movement is always done from a Room to another Room. Characters
are never placed in Corridors.

EXPLORATION CARD
Place a Room of the ? type.

The Movement sequence goes as follows:
1.
2.

3.

2

Choose Direction – Choose an adjacent Corridor your Character is going to Move through.
Resolve Opportunity Attacks – If there are any Intruders
( ) in the same Room as the Character and/or in the Corridor the Character wants to Move through – for each such Intruder, starting with the largest Intruders, resolve an Intruder
Attack (up to 3 Attacks maximum).
More on Intruder Attacks: see page 32.
See the effect of your Movement:
a. If you are Moving to an already Discovered Room:
– Move your Character there.
– If you are Moving Cautiously place a Secure token
( ) there.
– Make a Noise roll.
More on Noise rolls: see the next page.
b. If you are Moving through an Unexplored Corridor
to an Undiscovered Room – Resolve the Exploration
Sequence.

SECRET PASSAGES
Sometimes an effect (such as a Technical Corridor Entrance
Room effect) may allow a Character to Move to a specific Room
regardless of distance. In such a case resolve the sequence
above with the exception of the Choose Direction step.

3

Place 1

1.

2.

At the start of the game, the Facility is mostly unexplored. New
Rooms and Corridors appear as a result of Characters Moving to uncharted territory and exploring on their own.
Whenever a Character Moves through an Unexplored Corridor they
must resolve the Exploration Sequence (as mentioned in the Movement section above).

Note: Exploration cards do not always show the Corridor the Character has Moved through, since their purpose is to show new Corridors
to be placed.

Reminder:
if you are Moving Cautiously.

Entrance Effect:
Close all Doors around this Room.
Remove this card from the game.

exploration sequence

The Exploration Sequence is resolved by drawing an Exploration card
and resolving it in the empty Room slot at the end of the Unexplored
Corridor the Character Moved through. The Exploration card must be
oriented the same way as the map – note the North icon on the card
and the top-left side of the map.

1

4
5
6

Set up the Room – Check the type of Room described on
the top of the card (“A”, “B”, “C”, or “?”), draw a random
Room of that type and place it face up in an empty space on
the exit of the Corridor you are Moving through.
If there are no more Rooms of the required type, place the
random “?” Room instead.
Set up the Corridors – Around the new Room, place a random Corridor face up in each space shown on the card, if its
not already there.
If a Corridor has a Door slot – place it so the Door slot connects with the newly Explored Room.
There are 2 exceptions to this step:
a. No Corridors lead out of the Facility – If a Corridor leads
to a space that is outside the Facility’s border, do not
set it up.
b. No Corridors lead to already placed Rooms –
If a Corridor leads to a Room that is already placed
on the map, do not set it up.

Note: Corridors do not lead to already placed Rooms, because Corridors should not appear out of nowhere around Rooms that were established to have only certain entrances.
3.

4.
5.

6.
7.

Set up markers and tokens – Place all markers and tokens
on Corridors and Rooms as shown on the Exploration card.
Do not place a Noise marker ( ) in a Corridor that already
has one – nothing happens in that case.
Movement and Securing Reminder – Move your Character to
the Room. If you’re Moving Cautiously, place a
in that Room.
Entrance Effect – Some cards may have an additional effect
that should be resolved at this point. The most common one
is making a Noise roll.
Insider icon – This icon is not used in the base game, ignore it.
Discard the Exploration card – Unless it was already removed as a part of the Entrance Effect.

EMPTY EXPLORATION DECK
If you ever need to draw from the Exploration deck and it’s
empty, reshuffle all Exploration cards (except the removed
ones) and then draw the required card.

24

