items
Items come in many different types. Each Character starts the game
with their own Character Item. During setup they also get a Support
Equipment (except the Contractor), and throughout the game they
may find other regular Items.
Most often, Items must be Used (for example by performing “Use an
Item” Basic Action) for their effects to be applied. However, there are
Items with passive effects, which are applied when the timing on the
card calls out for it. Those Items may never be used by performing
the “Use an Item” Basic Action.
Item with a passive effect

gaining items

search
For each Item Icon in your Room
draw 1 Item of the corresponding type.
You may keep 1 of them and discard the rest.
19

C O M B AT E N G I N E E R

perimeter security device
HEAVY

life support control "b"
Flip an

/

in Section B.

Whenever you Discover a new Room:
results (from all sources).
Ignore

Items are most commonly gainedORby using the Search Action card.
Look at both Anti-Aircraft tokens
Some other cards and effects
very similarly to the Search Acandwork
place them
order.
tion card allowing Charactersintoany
find
even more Items.

Most Items come with Traits below their name :

The Search Action card allows you to draw 1 Item card for each Item
Icon ( ,
, and
) on the Room you are Searching in. Then,
you pick 1 of those cards to keep and discard the rest to the bottom
of their respective decks. Items that were Searched but not chosen
should not be revealed to other players.

• Heavy – Items with a horizontal layout that may only be
placed in Hand slots.
• Armor – Items marked additionally on the top of the card.
Most Armors provide a passive effect.
• Ranged Weapon, Melee Weapon – These Traits are common and simply describe the Item. They have no effect on
their own, but many Actions may reference them.
• One Use Only – These Items are discarded when Used.
• Requires no Ammo – Weapons with this Trait are special
and require no Ammo tokens to Shoot and Burst.
Note: For the sake of Actions that require Weapons with
Ammo tokens, those Items are considered as always having
an Ammo token on them.

For example: By Searching Life Support Control “B” you will draw
1
and 1
Item. Then, choose 1 of those cards to keep, and discard the other one to the bottom of its corresponding deck.
FULLY LOADED
During the game Items are always found with all Tactical Gear
slots filled, if they have any.

regular items

duct tape
ONE USE ONLY

Discard a

.

OR

Place 1 Heavy Item above
another Heavy Item in your
Hand slot (effectively carrying
2 Heavy Items in 1 Hand).

The most common type of Items are regular Items – all vertical Items
without an Armor keyword. When these Items are used, simply resolve their effect.
BACKPACK
All regular Items are always placed in a Backpack card holder
and may be used by performing the “Use an Item” Action.
There is no limit to the number of regular Items that may be
held in the Backpack. Items in the Backpack are a secret information and should not be revealed to other players until used.

28

