procedures
There are several Procedures that may be referenced by the game.
Any time the game instructs you to resolve a certain Procedure, simply follow the steps below.

infection procedure
The Infection Procedure is used to check whether a Character (
becomes infected with a Larva.

To resolve the Infection Procedure:

3.

Scan all Contamination cards in hand.
Look for the word “INFECTED” on the scanned cards:
– If you find the word “Infected” on a card, it is Infected –
place a Larva on your Character board, if you don’t have
one already.
– If you don’t find such a word, the card is Not Infected.

Place all Contaminations in your hand on top of your discard
pile.
More on Contamination cards: see page 36.

eclosion procedure
The Eclosion Procedure is used to check whether a Larva hatches
and kills a Character in the process.
The Eclosion Procedure is always performed at the End of the Game,
but may also sometimes be performed during the game.
To resolve the Eclosion Procedure:
1.
2.

Draw 4 cards from your Action deck.
Check if any of your cards in hand is a Contamination card –
do not scan them.
– If you don’t have any Contamination cards – you are still
alive. Discard all cards from your hand.
– If any of the cards in your hand is a Contamination card your Character dies.

If a Character dies this way during the game, place 1 Adult in their
Room. It may result in an Intruder Attack against another Character
in the same Room.

autodestruction procedure
The Facility is installed with an Autodestruction Procedure in case of
emergency. It can be easily turned on, but turning it off is not an easy
task, because it requires a complete power shutdown in the Reactor Room.
When the Procedure is Activated, place the Autodestruction token ( ) on the Round track 5 spaces ahead of the current Round
marker (there should be 4 empty spaces between the Round marker
and the Autodestruction token). If there are not enough spaces on
the Round track, place the Autodestruction token behind the last
space – the Autodestruction activates upon the game end instead.
When a Round marker moves to the same space as the Autodestruction token, the Facility is destroyed and the game ends.
The Autodestruction Procedure may only be turned off in the Reactor
Room, with a complete Facility power shut down.
DESTROYED FACILITY
When the Facility is destroyed, the game ends – all Characters in the Facility (even Hibernated) and Intruders (including
the Queen) are considered dead. All Rooms (including the Nest)
are considered Destroyed.

38

To win the game, each Character must (among other things) Escape
from the Facility or Hibernate.
There are 3 ways of doing so:

)

The Infection Procedure is always performed at the End of the Game,
but may also sometimes be performed during the game (for example,
by using the Rest Action card).
1.
2.

Escaping/Hibernating

1.
2.
3.

Escaping by using the Lander in the Landing Zone.
Locking themselves by Hibernating in the Hibernatorium. This
Action can only be done if Hibernatorium is Active (
).
Escaping the Facility through the Escape Shuttle.

Whenever a Character tries to use one of the 3 aformentioned
Rooms, they must make a Noise roll as a part of that Room’s effect.
This Noise roll includes a special rule:
• If, after this Noise roll, there is an Intruder ( ) in the same
Room as the Character, the Action is unsuccessful and
the Character stays in the Room.
• Otherwise, the Action is a success.
As a result:
• Landing Zone – The Character boards the Lander and awaits
the Event Phase (they may still be forced to leave the Lander
by Intruders).
More on the Lander: see page 37 and Rooms Help sheet.
• Hibernatorium – The Character Hibernates safely in a locked
pod and takes no further part in the game until the End of the
Game check. They may still die as a result of Facility destruction.
• Escape Shuttle – The Character has flown out of the Facility
and takes no further part in the game until End of the Game
check.
Note: Anti-Aircraft systems do not interact with the Escape Shuttle
in any way.

