GOLDEN RULES
Nightmare Rule – If you are at any point unsure about a certain ruling, order of effects, or cannot find an answer to your
questions, you should always resolve the particular situation in
the worst possible scenario for the players.
If the situation is still unclear, perform it in the worst possible scenario for the Character first in Turn order.
Local Effects – Every effect in the game, which target is not
clearly specified or defined, is local – meaning it is resolved in
the same Room as the Character performing the effect.

For example: “Discard a Malfunction marker” means you discard
a Malfunction marker from the Room your Character is currently in
or any object in your Room (like a Weapon your Character is holding).
Component Limits – Most components are limited and have special rules on what happens if they run out. For any other components, consider them limited with no special rules – if they are
to be used, and no more are available, nothing happens instead.
For example: Characters cannot gain Ammo tokens if all are already in players’ possession.

detailed rules
D

G

F

C
A

D

e

medical support

G

B

character

During game setup Character tiles are placed into universal Character boards. From that point on they are referred to as a singular
Character board.
A Character board is a component showing all possible Actions
that may be performed by a Character. All effects, Wounds, and other
statuses impacting the Character are also placed there.

a. name and rank
Each Character ( ) has their Rank. Several effects may interact with the Rank, for example, by allowing Characters of higher
Rank to command Characters of lower Rank by the use of specific
Action cards.
For example: The Medical Support shown above has a Rank of 2.

b. health track
The Health track shows the current vitality of the Character – how many
Injuries they have taken so far, their exhaustion, etc.
More on Character’s Health: see page 18.

c. tactical belt
Each Character has their own Tactical Belt – it consists of 4 Tactical
Gear slots, which can hold Tactical Gear tokens.
TACTICAL GEAR SLOTS
You can find Tactical Gear slots not just on your Tactical Belt but also
on your Weapons and other Items.

16

USE ANY TACTICAL GEAR ACTION
When this Action is performed, choose any number of your Tactical
Gear tokens and use them, applying their effects. Then, discard all
chosen tokens (apart from Ammo tokens, which are moved to Weapons as a part of their effect).
You may also move any number of your tokens between your
Tactical slots.
GAINING TACTICAL GEAR TOKENS
Newly gained Tactical Gear tokens can be placed in empty Tactical Gear slots of the corresponding color – it means that Ammo
tokens can be placed directly in Weapons’ Tactical Gear slots.
Gray slots are universal, and any Tactical Gear token can be
placed there.
AMMO TOKENS
Ammo token icon:
Ammo tokens are 2-sided. One side shows a Full Ammo token,
and the other shows a Half-full Ammo token.
Using an Ammo token allows you to Reload a Weapon – choose
a Weapon and move an Ammo token from your Tactical Gear slot
onto the slot on the chosen Weapon.
You may never move an Ammo token that is already loaded into
a Weapon – Ammo cannot be swapped between Weapons.

