INTRODUCTION
Page 6

robot
Characters, while exploring the Facility, may come upon a friendly Robot ( ) that they can use to aid
them in their missions. It starts in
the Hibernatorium and it is not
known which Robot is currently
used in the Facility – it is chosen
randomly at the start and placed
face down. The Robot does nothing
on it’s own, it only perform Actions it has been assigned by Characters.
The Robot card is revealed when any Room is connected to the Hibernatorium for the first time - from that point on the Robot can be Activated.
The Robot is completely ignored by Intruders in all cases – they
are not interested in mechanical beings.
ACTIVATING THE ROBOT
There are 6 different Robot cards but only 1 can appear in a given
game. Each card has a unique effect associated with the Robot.
Characters may use the “Activate the Robot” Action by discarding
1 Action card:
• Locally – If they are in a Room with the Robot
OR
• Remotely – If they are in a Room with a Computer (
and they discard 1 additional Action card.

)

DATA TOKEN AND ROBOT
A Data token may be gained by using the Server Room Action.

MALFUNCTION MARKER ON THE ROBOT
The Robot can sometimes get broken. Various game effects may
place a Malfunction marker on the Robot.
A Robot with a Malfunction marker is considered to have no Action
and all game effects mentioning the Robot are unavailable. Tactical
Gear tokens on the Robot may still be used, however.

ENDGAME
OVERVIEW
Page 7

SETUP
Pages 8-11

If a Character is in a Room with the Robot, Actions that discard Malfunction markers may do so from the Robot.

GAME ROUND
STRUCTURE
Pages 12-15

ROBOT MOVEMENT
The Robot never moves on its own. All of its movement is done as
a result of player Actions.

CHARACTER
Pages 16-18

The Robot always moves from a Room to a neighboring Room. It ignores Intruders (even the ones in Corridors), but it cannot move
through Closed Doors.
The Robot may never move through an Unexplored Corridor to Explore a new Room and never makes a Noise roll.
Note: The effect of the Exploration Robot is the only exception, allowing it to Explore a new Room – it could make a Noise roll in that case.
ROBOT’S TACTICAL GEAR SLOTS
The Robot has its own Tactical Gear slots and starts with 2 tokens
– 1 Ammo token ( ) and 1 Oxygen token ( ). When a Character performs “Use Tactical Gear tokens” Action, while they are in
the same Room as the Robot, they may also Use the Robot’s Tactical Gear tokens. In that case the tokens may also be moved
between the Character’s and the Robot’s Tactical Gear slots.

MAP
Pages 19-23

CHARACTER
MOVEMENT
Pages 24-27

ITEMS
Pages 28-29

INTRUDERS
Pages 30-32

Characters with this token may Activate the Robot remotely without
discarding the additional card.

lander and anti-aircraft system

COMBAT
Pages 33-34

lander
act ive

inact ive

The Facility is equipped with Anti-Aircraft systems. As such, Active
Anti-Aircraft systems may destroy the Lander ( ) making the Escape this way impossible.
At the start of the game Characters do not know if the system is
working or not, and it’s up to them to gather this information.
The Anti-Aircraft system is represented by 2 Anti-Aircraft tokens.
During game setup, these tokens are placed face down in a random
order in the Anti-Aircraft slot (on the Section “B” border piece). The token on top indicates the status of the Anti-Aircraft system.

A Character can get into the Lander by using the Landing Zone Room
Action, while the Lander token is already there. The Character models
in the Lander are placed on the Anti-Aircraft slot.

THE QUEEN
Page 35

While a Character is in the Lander:

CONTAMINATION
CARDS
Page 36

• Their Turns are skipped (but they do not Pass). If all other Characters Pass, they automatically Pass too, and the Round ends.
• They may not willingly leave the Lander.
• They do not lose Oxygen, nor do they lose Health from any effects (such as Fire in the Room). Destroyed Facility is the only
thing that can still affect them.
• They still take part in a standard Cleanup Phase. They draw
Action cards and may be passed the Starting Player token.
• After any Intruder appears in the Landing Zone, the Characters automatically leave the Lander and may act again during
their next Turn.

During the game Characters may check (in secret) and swap those
tokens using the Life Support Control “B” Room. Information about
the status of Anti-Aircraft tokens may be shared and lied about, but
tokens cannot be shown.

LANDER LAUNCH DECISION
At the very start of the Event Phase any Character inside the Lander
may decide to Launch the Lander. If that happens:

RESOLVING ANTI-AIRCRAFT TOKENS
Anti-Aircraft tokens are resolved when a Round marker is placed
on the space with the Lander token (or the other way around) –
the Lander tries to land in the Facility but may be destroyed in
the process. In this situation check the top Anti-Aircraft token:

• Remove the Lander token from game.
• Place all Character models that were in the Lander, on their
respective Character boards – they have safely Escaped
the Facility and no longer take part in the game until End of
the Game check.

• If it’s ACTIVE – the Lander gets destroyed. Discard the Lander
token.
• If it’s INACTIVE – the Lander lands safely. Place the Lander token on the Landing Zone Room and remove the Anti-Aircraft
tokens from the game – they cannot be changed. From now on
Characters may use the Landing Zone Room to try to Escape.

Note: This is not a collaborative decision! It is enough for 1 Character
to decide to Launch the Lander.

ROBOT
Page 37

LANDER AND
ANTI-AIRCRAFT
Page 37

PROCEDURES
Page 38

END OF
THE GAME
Page 39
OBJECTIVE AND
MISSION TASK
Page 39
ADDITIONAL
MODES
Page 40

37

ICON GLOSSARY
Page 40

