doors

blocking path
DESTROYED DOORS

Closed Doors block access to anything (with the exception of a Noise
marker) on the other side. Characters cannot perform any Actions
that influence objects behind Closed Doors.
Note: Effects that specifically call out “any object in the Facility”, like
Moving to any Room in the Facility, still work and allow you to Move
even to a Room closed by Doors from all sides. Those effects allow
you to reach the Room in another way, like moving through a ventilation corridor.

CLOSED DOORS

Characters ( ) cannot Move, Burst etc. through a Corridor with
Closed Doors – they must Open or Destroy the given Door first
(mostly as a result of using Actions or Item cards).

Some Corridors may come with Door slots – this means that there
are Open Doors there. With appropriate effects Doors can be Closed
– signified by placing Door tokens on Door slots.

Intruders ( ), when attempting to move through Closed Doors,
Destroy them instead.
More on Intruder Movement: see page 30.

A Room and a Corridor joined by a Closed Door are still considered
adjacent (and 2 Rooms with a Door in between are still considered
neighboring), but the Door imposes some limitations – such as preventing Movement or Bursting.

INTERACTING WITH DOORS
Doors may become:
• Closed – Doors can only be Closed in places with Door slots.
When Closing a Door, simply place a Door token there.
• Opened – Remove the Door token from the board.
• Destroyed – If there is a Closed Door, it may be Destroyed –
lay the Door token down. Such a Door is now considered to be
the same as Open, but cannot be Closed again.

Note: All Corridors, at the moment of placement, should be oriented
with a Door slot in the direction of the Room just placed.

DOORS AND SPREADING FIRE
Event cards and other effects may Spread Fire between Rooms. If Fire
would spread between 2 Rooms blocked by Closed Doors, ignore
that spread instead – Closed Doors block spreading Fire.
CORRIDOR A

CORRIDOR B

CORRIDOR C

Doors highlighted may be Opened by the Character using
an appropriate Action. The Doors at the end of Corridor A
cannot be Opened since there are other Doors in the way.
Intruders highlighted in Corridor C can be Bursted at by
the Character. Intruders in Corridor A cannot, since there
are Doors in the way.

22

