E

15

C

F

A life support control "a"
B
Flip an

/
in Section A.
OR
Discard a
from any Room
in the Facility.

rooms

Rooms are the main structure of the game – Characters ( ) Move
between neighboring Rooms. Each Room has plenty of icons related
to it.
Rooms are divided into 2 types – Section Rooms (“A”, “B”, and “C”)
which belong to an associated Section and can always be found in
the game, and random Rooms (“?”), which are not certain to appear
in the game.
Room tiles contain the following information:
A. Name
B. Effect – A short description of the Room’s effect when Using
a Room.
C. Item Icons – Shows which types of Items can be found in
a given Room. Mostly referenced by the Search Action card.
D. Computer Icon – Shows whether the Room contains a connection to the server. The icon does nothing on its own but is
frequently referenced by other Actions and effects.
E. Room Type and Room ID – Shows whether the Room is
a Section Room (“A”, “B”, or “C”) or a random Room (“?”).
The Identyfying number is used for various tie-breakers.
F. Other Icons – Rooms may also feature some other icons,
showing special rules:
– Such Rooms are never Secured and can never have Secure tokens placed on them.
More on Secure tokens: see page 23.
– These Rooms can never be broken. A Malfunction
marker is never placed on them.
More on Malfunction markers: see page 23.

use the room
Whenever any Character Uses the Room (most commonly by performing the “Use the Room” Basic Action), they resolve the Room’s effect.
Note: All Rooms are described in detail on the Rooms Help sheet.

20

E

D

nest
The Nest has its own space on Section C border piece which contains 5 Egg tokens at the start of the game. This space is considered to be an extension of the Nest Room tile, meaning Characters
in the Nest Room may interact with Egg tokens and are considered
to be in a Room with Egg tokens.
Eggs are treated as Heavy Items and may be picked up using the Nest
Room Action.
More on Heavy Items: see page 29.
You can destroy the Nest by removing all Eggs from the Eggs space
(by using the Nest’s Room Action). When there are no more Eggs
there, place a Universal marker on the Eggs space – this signifies
the Nest being destroyed. It stays destroyed even if other effects
would add new Eggs there.
FIRE DESTROYING EGGS
If a Fire ( ) is in the Nest, it removes 1 Egg from there during
each Intruder Burning Phase step.

