setup
Setup is divided into two parts – Game Setup and Player Setup.
Game Setup is straightforward and can be done in advance.
Player Setup involves drafting Characters ( ) and Support Equipment. Since it requires player choices, it should be done with all players gathered at the table.

game setup

A fully setup game can be seen. To set up the game perform the following in order:

a. sections setup
1.
2.

3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

8.

9.

Find the 3 Section border pieces and 3 Round track border
pieces, connect them to each other and place them on the table.
Place the Undiscovered Hibernatorium tile on top of the Hibernatorium Room.
Note: This tile rests there until Characters reach the Hibernatorium. Until then, the Hibernatorium is considered Undiscovered, Noise tokens cannot be placed on the connected Corridors and the Robot cannot be Activated.
Place the Round marker on the 1st slot of the Round track.
Place the Lander token (
) on the “10” slot of the Round track.
Place the Autodestruction token ( ) on the corresponding
slot above the Round track.
Place 1 Universal marker on the top-most space of the Objective Choice section.
Place all 3 Life Support tokens and the Hibernatorium token
Inactive side up (
and
) on the corresponding
slots of the 3 Section border pieces.
Shuffle all Robot cards, draw 1 of them without looking at it
and place it face down on the Robot slot of the Section “A” border piece. Leave the rest of the Robot cards unseen in the box.
Place 1 Ammo token (full side up) and 1 Oxygen token on
the slots next to the Robot card.

15. One by one, draw 3 random Corridor tiles and connect them
to the Landing Zone – place them face up (showing the side
with the non-zero values).
If any of those Corridors have a Door slot, they should be
placed with the slot on an entrance to the Landing Zone.
16. Take all Room tiles. Sort them by their backs into 4 stacks –
“A”, “B”, “C” and “?”. Shuffle each stack and place it face
down near the Corridor tiles.

PRIMEBLOODS ARE INTRUDERS
Intruders is a name for all alien races in the Nemesis universe. This box contains a race called Primebloods. During the
game consider terms Primebloods and Intruders ( ) as being equivalent.

b7

a1

a14

Note: Ammo tokens are two-sided – portraying
a full side and a half-full side. All Ammo tokens
enter the game (during setup or during the game)
on their full side.

a9
a5

10. Assemble the Robot model and place it on the Hibernatorium.

a3

Note: If you have the Terrain Expansion, do not assemble
the Robot now. In the Hibernatorium place only the base Robot part and wait for the Robot to be revealed to assemble
the other part.
11. Shuffle and place both Anti-Aircraft tokens face down, one
on top of the other, in the Anti-Aircraft slot on the Section “B”
border piece.
12. Place 5 Egg tokens in the Eggs space on the Section “C”
border piece.
13. Take 4 Ammo tokens (full side up), 4 Grenade tokens (
), 4
Oxygen tokens (
) and 4 Medpack tokens (
) and place
them on their corresponding slots next to the Landing Zone.
14. Shuffle all Corridor tiles, put them inside a Corridor insert
and place it near the Round track.
You will be drawing Corridors from that insert throughout
the game in a way to avoid seeing the fronts of the Corridors (the side with the non-zero value) before they are drawn.
DEADLY MODE
Some Corridors contain a second, smaller Noise value.
This value is used only in the Deadly mode – see page 40.

8

a8

a16

a13
a4

b1
a6

a15

